All right guys, in this video, we're going to look at fonts,specifically the font-family property and font-size property.So, you might want to use different styles of fonts in differentwebsites and different user interfaces.So, we're going to take a look at how to do that.We're going to talk about Web Safe Fonts,and also how to use fonts from other sources like Google fonts.So, let's create a new file here called 03_fonts.html,and we're going to put our boilerplate in here and let'sgo down and just change the title to 'Fonts', and let's putour style tags in here for our CSS,and then I'm going to copy from the last file, the selectorsjust the two divs that are in the HTML here, just so wecan use them as a text display.So, I'm going to save this and then open with Live Server,and let's make it a little bigger, I'll holdControl and hit the plus symbol, just make these a littlebigger. All right. So, in our style right here,let's add a selector for the body, that's usually where you're going toadd your font-family, because then it affects your whole page, right,so the fonts on, for your whole page.So, we want to use font-family which takes in a font stack,so basically a list of different fonts and in VSCode, we getthis cool drop down, so we can, of font stacks that we can choosefrom, but before we get into that, I want to take a look atWeb Safe Fonts.Now, you have the ability to use pretty much any font thatyou want, that you can get your hands on, but if they're notthese Web Safe Fonts, then you're going to want to includethem, include the actual font files within your website, justlike you would include a CSS file and you can also link tothem remotely, which I'm going to show you how to do withGoogle fonts, but these right here, you don't need to do anythingextra for, because they're going to be availablein all browsers that users are using to view your website with,and notice that there's some of these, there's multiple fonts.These are actually called font stacks.For instance, this first one Arial, Helvetica, sans-serif, what'sgoing to happen is, it's going to look for the Arial fontto use, if it can't find that it'll move to use Helvetica,if it can't find that, it'll move to use any sans-seriffont. So, basically you have sans-serif and serif,and these, this is an example of what these look like.
So, basically a serif font has these edges, these points onthe edge and a sans-serif font is like a flat look.For the most part, you're probably going to want to use asans-serif font, because they just look neater.They also look much more modern and part of the reason forthat is because Times New Roman, which is a very serif font,is the default. Okay. So, when we don't add a font-family,that's what's used. Some of my favorite Web Safe Fonts are Ariel,I also like Verdana, I like to Tahoma.So, let's jump back into VSCode and Chrome, and by defaultlike I said, it's using sans-serif.You can see the kind of like the point, see the 'A' right here.So, I want to change this to Ariel, now in VSCode if I justtype in A, Ariel, Helvetica, sans-serif, isactually an option. Okay, so this is a font stack.Like I said, it's going to look for Ariel, then Helvetica,sans-serif, if I save this, notice how it changes into a flatterlooking font. Okay, let's try something else,let's try Verdana.So, we'll just, if I just put a V in there, it's gonna, Verdanais going to pop up.So, we have Verdana, Geneva, Tahoma, sans-serif, save it,it's a little different, but it's still a sans-serif font.Okay. So, if you want to use something different, somethingthat isn't in that list I showed you then, what I would recommendis using Google Fonts.
So, I'm going to open up a new browser here,and just make it bigger and let's head over tofonts.google.com. So, here you can go over to the search,you can search for certain fonts, you can browse themif you want, you can see samples of them.I like Roboto, that's one I use quite a bit,and you see it pops up over here.There's Roboto, Roboto Condensed, Roboto Mono, Slab.So, let's say we want to use this Roboto font.We can click this plus sign right here, and we get this littlepop-up, and if I click on that, it shows us how we can bringthis into our HTML, we can do it using a link tag just likewe do with just regular CSS files.We can also import it into our CSS like this.Usually I do import it, but since we're putting our CSS in theHTML file, I'm just going to use the link.Okay. So, if we grab that and then it shows us how we canactually implement it. We can just add the font-familyand then Roboto sans-serif. So, let's go backinto VSCode and let's open up our other browser here,and let's go right below, the actually will go rightabove the title and paste in that link.Okay. So, it links to 'https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?', and thenas a parameter, it has family equals Roboto.So, now we should be able to go ahead and put in Roboto justlike it said and then sans-serif and if I save it, there we go,and that looks pretty nice and clean.
I really like the Roboto font.So, that's how we can use basically non Web Safe Fonts.Okay. So, next thing I want to look at is font-size.Okay. So, let's say font-size. Now, the standard is 16pixels, andthat's actually on the html tag, okay.The html tag by default has a font-size of 16 pixels.That's what you're seeing that we do have this zoomed ina little bit. That's why it's bigger.Actually, let's put it back to, we'll just, oops,let's put it back to just a 100%.So, I'm going to do Control and then the minus, and that's 110,that's 100, so that's the default.So, let's change it to 18pixels,okay, and for the most part I usually leave it at 16, butjust to show you, I'll change it to 18 and save, and now youcan see, it's bigger. Also, we can adjust the line-height,which is basically the height of each line.So, let's say line, oops, line-height, and this is going to,this is usually in 'em' units, which is a relative unit,and I'm going to go over 'rem' and 'em' units later on.So, don't worry if you don't really understand this, but a commonvalue I like to use for the line-height for the body is '1.6em',and we'll save and notice how now there's more space in betweeneach line. Okay, so I think it makes it look a little cleaner.Now I want to talk a little bit about units, so pixels, em, and so on.Now looking at this list of CSS Units, this one which is Absoluteunits and then we also have Relative units.It may be a little overwhelming, but don't worry about itbecause we don't use most of these. In fact, the only thingwe're going to use on this page is Pixels.Pixels is the common absolute unit that you'regoing to use. You can use Centimeters.You can use Millimeters, Inches.You can set your font to one inch if you want, but that'snot something that you're probably going to do, what you'regoing to use this Pixels and the exact size of size of1pixel is 1/96th of 1inch.Okay, there's also Points. Points may be familiar from somethinglike Microsoft Word and 1point is 1/72 of 1inch. 
You may run intoPoints, but for the most part you're going to see Pixels.You also have Picas which it's actually equal to 12 points.Okay, you're not going to really see that. Nowthere's also something called Relative units, which I'm goingto get into later, I'm not going to really focus on this right now.But for instance, you have percentage, you can set it topercentage of a parent element,and by the way, this doesn't have to be just font-size,this could be for margin, padding, line-height,what else width, height, all that stuff.Okay, so you also have 'em' and 'rem' units.'em' is basically, it's a multiplier, so whatever the size of yourparent element, let's say the parent div to a paragraph isis 16pixels and you set it to 1em,that's going to be equal to 16pixels.If you set it to 1.2em, that will be equal to 16pixels times 1.2.'rem' units act the same way except instead of the parent element,they use the root HTML element, which by default is 16pixels.So, if you set it to 1rem, by default, it will be set to 16pixels,and if this is confusing the crap out of you, don'tworry, we're going to get into this stuff later.I'm not even going to bother going over viewport-width andviewport-height right now.All right, so let's head back into VSCode, and I'm actuallygoing to put the font-family back to Ariel,or Arial, Helvetica, sans-serif and I just want to show youa couple more font properties.So, I want to look at font-weight and font-style which arevery simple. 
They're basically used to make some textbold or make text italic. So, I'm going to add a span in here.So, let's say span.I'm going to take the ending tag here, Control C, copy it, deleteit, and then put that there and also put a span down here,oops, let's do span,and we'll take the ending tag, put that down here.All right, so let's save that and let's go up here,and I want to show you how to target these spans.So, for this one here, we can say we want to go into the welcomediv. Okay. So, the div has the id of welcome, and then wewant to go into the paragraph, and then we want to go intothat span. So, that's how we can target this firstspan right here. Now, technically we don't even need the paragraph,because it's still going to look into this div with the id of welcomeand then on to the span, but I think it's more organizedto keep the paragraph in there.Okay, just as an extra step, and let's say we want to makethe font-weight bold,and notice that this VSCode gives us the selectionswhich we could use numbers to make them more or less bold,but we're just going to choose bold, and save and notice hownow the span, the text sits within the span as bold.Okay. So, just like the strong tag, we can set it to boldthrough CSS.So, let's target this span down here by saying we wantthe about div, paragraph span,and we're going to set the font-style to italic,and save and now you can see it,it's very faint but this text is now italic.So, these are the font based properties. In the next video,I want to start to get into colors, and you saw that I usedfor instance the color name like red and green.I also use this weird, this number sign and then someletters, that's actually called hexadecimal.We also have something called RGB.So, I want to look at colors and the different typesthat we can use in CSS.